All right, everybody, and welcome back
to another video. For those of you that
don't know me, my name is Carson. My
brother Jackson and I run a virtual land
flipping business where we've done over
750 deals over the past 3 years, and we
now are developing luxury waterfront
properties. So, we have over $20 million
in luxury real estate that we're
developing oursel. But why I made this
video is because I want to teach you
guys what a title company is. So,
whatever you want to do in real estate,
whether you want to buy a rental
property, whether you want to flip land,
whether you want to buy land, whether
you want to buy a house and get a
mortgage on it, whether you want to flip
houses, whatever you're going to do in
real estate, you're going to need to use
a title company. So, there are so many
people that ask me this question on my
Instagram or on our YouTube and say,
"Hey, what is a title company? What does
a title company do in the transaction?
How do I explain to a seller what a
title company is?" So, in this video,
I'm going to break down all that
information so that you don't have that
problem anymore. So, you don't have that
issue anymore. So that when somebody
asks you that question, you know exactly
how to respond to them because of this
video. So, I'm going to break it down
right away and get into everything. But
before we do that, go ahead and like
this video and subscribe to the channel
if you like this type of content. Um, I
know to keep making these types of
videos if you guys are enjoying them and
if they're helpful for you guys. So, our
goal is to teach you as much information
as possible on this stuff. So, go ahead
and like and subscribe to our channel if
you're enjoying the videos so we know to
keep making them for you guys cuz we
enjoy doing it. So, uh first things
first, let's get into what a title
company even is, right? So, why do we
need a title company? What is it and how
does it play a role in a real estate
transaction, right? So, I'll give the
example of when we're doing land
flipping transactions. Okay? So, what
we're doing is we're getting a piece of
land under contract and then selling
that contract and piece of land to a
home builder. So, for example, let's say
that we get the seller contract at
30,000 and then we get the buyer
contract at 40,000. We then take these
two contracts and we email them into a
title company, right? So, they get both
of these contracts, the seller
information and the buyer information
into the title company. And now, what's
their job? Their job is to close this
property out, transfer over the transfer
over the title smoothly, legally, and
efficiently to get it done as quickly as
possible. Right? So, their job is to
make sure that the property gets
transferred over legally and properly
and they're going to hold all the money
in escrow. So, when you're speaking to a
seller and you're trying to get a
property under contract or you're trying
to get a deal done and they ask, "What
what even is a title company?" Like, who
are these people that you're going to
send the money to? How do I know this is
legit? So, the title company is who's
going to hold the money in escrow? So,
if I'm the buyer and I'm paying for a
property, if I'm paying $40,000 for the
property, I don't send the 40 grand
directly to the seller. What happens is
the initial purchase of sale agreement
gets signed, okay, with the seller and
the buyer. Those get sent into the title
company. Then about 7 to 10 days before
the actual closing date, the title
company will reach out to you and say,
"Hey, I'm going to mail out the final
documents or email them to you. I need
them to get signed, notorized, and sent
back into me." Signed, notorized, and
sent back into me. What's a notary?
Right. So getting it signed with a
notary means going into a bank, going
into a UPS, having a remote online
notary come online and help walk you
through it or having someone come out to
your house to help walk you through it.
Someone that's a notary, that's a
licensed notary. What this notary does
is just confirms that you are who you
say you are. You give them your ID. You
go ahead and sign up everything. Notary
does their stamp and then you mail those
papers into the title company. These are
the final closing documents. you cannot
transfer over a property without the
final closing documents that are
notorized and sent back um or there
could be a cloudy title or something
like that or something on the deed. So
once these final documents get sent back
in, then the buyer wires the funds into
the title company. Okay? So let's say
it's $40,000. I wire the $40,000 into
the title company if I'm the buyer. The
title company holds the money in escrow
ready to pay out the seller or whoever's
in the middle. So, if we were the
assigner in that, we'd get paid out, you
know, 10 grand as the middleman, then 30
grand to the seller. But they wait until
they get the final documents back, make
sure everything's notorized properly,
everything's good to go, and then they
go ahead and pay out the seller from the
buyer's money, but they handle all that
stuff. So, they handle the closing
process, they handle where the money
goes, they handle all of that good
stuff. Um, and why do you need one? So,
back in the day, people didn't have
title companies. People didn't use title
companies. they would just do it on a
handshake. They would just do it on an
agreement. They do it on a piece of
paper. But today, if you don't go ahead
and transfer over the property through a
title company, there could be overdue
taxes that don't get paid and you have
to they get stuck on the new buyer.
There could be all these different
things. There could be a cloudy title.
There could be a lean on the property
for $35,000 that you didn't know about.
So, there's all these types of things
that the title company's job is to clear
up that information. They make sure
there's no judgments on the property.
They make sure there's no leans on the
property. They make sure that overdue
taxes get taken care of before the
closing so the new buyer doesn't have to
deal with it. Right? Typically taxes get
prrated. What does that mean? That means
that if I'm buying a property in
September, the seller is responsible
from January to September of that year
of the taxes that the taxes are 500
bucks. It'll get subtracted from the
payment that they're going to get. Then
it gets prrated on to me. So I would be
responsible from the closing date,
September, and there on for the taxes.
So that's how the taxes typically go
with a closing. And another thing that
people ask me all the time is, okay, now
I know what a title company is. How do I
how the heck do I find one of these
title companies, right? Is it easy to
find a title company? And the answer is
yes. It's so easy to find a title
company. All you need to do is wherever
the property is, wherever you're having
your closing, just look up, for example,
if your property is in Tampa, Florida,
you look up title companies Tampa,
Florida, and it's going to pull up
hundreds of them right there that you
can go ahead and give a call and speak
to them. And I've had very, very good um
I've had very, very good experiences
with all title agents and everybody
that's worked at title companies in the
past. They've all been very helpful and
friendly and nice in helping get the
transaction done as quickly as they can.
So, I love working with title companies
and it's always been great. Um, so yeah,
that's how you find one is you literally
just look up anywhere where you're going
to go. And if you're doing what my
brother and I do and you're actually
flipping land and trying to make money
off of it, what you want to do is you
want to do one more step. You want to
look up assignable friendly title
companies Tampa. Okay, assignable
friendly. Or you can just call the title
companies and speak to them until one of
them says that they will accept an
assignment, which most of them do um
because they get a lot of business from
it because that's a very common thing
nowadays that's growing is more and more
people are doing these assignment type
deals that we explain more on this
channel if you want to go look more into
that. So what are the costs of a title
company and who pays them? Does the
seller pay them? Do I pay them if I'm
flipping a property? Does the buyer pay
them? So typically the buyer is going to
pay the closing costs. Sometimes it's
split between the buyer and the seller.
Sometimes as the assigner, we say we'll
cover the closing cost, but typically
the builder or buyer, whoever's buying
the property is going to cover the
closing cost is pretty standard um with
the transactions that we're doing. And
then the costs of one actually are I
mean, for more expensive properties, I
like to say it's about 2% of the sale,
but I mean, when we're doing like a
closing for a $20,000 property, it's
typically about 700 bucks. This pays for
the dock stamps. This pays for title
insurance. This pays for everything that
has to get done, the lean search, all
that stuff that the title company has to
cover. And again, we have to pay for the
title insurance and all that stuff
because, god forbid anything goes wrong
or there's a there's a fraudulent seller
or something like that, the title
insurance will cover anything that's a
mishap. So, for example, if we buy a
property from a fraudulent seller, the
title insurance is responsible for
paying everybody out and dealing with
the situation. So, we've had one
situation that we had to deal with title
insurance. They ended up paying out
paying us out six grand and it was no
problem and everything worked out
smoothly. So the cost of one vary based
on how valuable the property is and how
expensive the deal is. So that's how you
decide who's going to pay for it. Is
typically the buyer is going to pay for
it or it's a 50/50, but with the deals
we're doing, typically the buyer covers
the closing costs. Next, what is a HUD
statement? So a HUD statement is going
to get sent out in the final documents.
Okay? So, a HUD statement shows the
seller price, the buyer price, and then
the assignment price if you're doing
what we do with land flipping. So, the
assignment price is going to be the
middleman like me. So, for example,
there's seller A, buyer B, and then
assigner. Okay? Seller A, buyer B, and
assigner. So, for example, in that
transaction I'm talking about, seller A
is at 30,000, buyer B is at 40,000. Me
as the assigner is getting 10 grand. You
look on that HUD statement, which I'll
pop an example up of a HUD statement
here, and you want to make sure that the
seller is getting what you promised. So,
I would make sure that the seller is
getting $30,000. Then, I would make sure
that the buyer is paying $40,000 plus
closing costs, so I can walk away with
my 10 grand clean, and then look in
there for the assignment fee to your
company name of the 10 grand. So, you
want to verify the seller's getting what
you promised, the buyer's paying what
was agreed upon, and then you're getting
your assignment fee in between. That's
all you're paying attention to. But the
HUD statement is the final closing
statement that you're going to get
emailed and sent out right before the
closing. You want to confirm and make
sure everything is correct. And then
what email am I actually sending to the
title company? So when you have a deal
ready to go, when you're purchasing a
deal, when you're flipping a deal, um
what email are you going to actually
send a title company? So like I said
with what we do with our land flips,
doing this over 750 times, this is the
exact email that we send to them. This
right here is an example of the exact
email that we sent to them. says
basically this, hey, this is Carson. I'm
doing an assignment for this property.
We'd like to get this closed as soon as
possible. Then I put seller information,
my information to get paid, and the
buyer information because they're going
to reach out to the buyer, make sure
they get everything in, the earnest
money deposit and whatnot, because the
buyer's responsible for all that. Then
they're going to make sure that the
seller gets all the stuff in that they
need to get in and make sure they have
all the information from them. And then
they're just going to ask you where you
want them to send the money to you. So
either wire or check, however you want
to get paid. It's the best part of the
transaction, uh, to be quite honest. And
then another thing, people don't know
this, a lot of people, which I'm
surprised I guess maybe just cuz we've
been in the industry for so long and
it's like all we do that it's something
that's normal in my eyes, is people
don't know that you can do these
transactions completely virtually. So my
brother and I have done deals in about
20 different states. Um we've never been
out to any of these properties that
we've flipped. The only two properties
we've been out to are the ones we're
actually ground up developing. And how
it works is you don't have to go into
the title company. You don't have to go
in for the closings. they can email
everything and mail out the final
documents and do everything virtually.
So 99% of the time when we're doing
deals, almost 100% of the time it's all
completely virtually. We've done it
nationwide. We've done it while we've
been in Dubai. We've done it while we've
been in Mexico traveling. Like we've
been out of the country closing deals
over here in the US because it all
happens virtually. The sellers and the
buyers don't really even go in for a lot
of these closings that we're doing with
land, which a lot of people are very
surprised to hear that, but it's just
normal in my eyes, I guess. But yeah, we
do it completely virtually. And a lot of
these title companies are used to
handling virtual transactions. So, it's
not weird. It's just a typical thing
that's happening nowadays, which is
great because as you want to scale your
business and do more and more deals,
this is very, very helpful for your
business, right? Um, and then closing
time frames is the last thing I'm going
to talk about is what's a typical
closing time frame. So, what we've
experienced and what we've dealt with is
every single time that we send that
email to the title company, they need
anywhere from about 7 to 21 days, but
typical average is probably 10 to 14
days. So, what is included in that 10 to
14 days? They're doing the lean search,
they're doing the title search, they're
uh pulling the deed, making sure that
everything's clean, everything's good to
go. They're just doing their job, making
sure everything else is in order,
sending out the final documents, getting
everything to close. So, it's standard.
And be ready to give the title company
two weeks once you send it in. But
again, that's not that bad to get a
transaction done. A lot of house
transactions and stuff take 30, 60, 90
days. But with land, you know, we've
gotten it done as quickly as 3 days
before with a title company that we were
close with a property and closed on it
um because we really really wanted to
get it done. But standard time frame is
going to be about 14 days from sending
in an email. So, just respect the title
company's timeline and the standard is
going to be about 2 weeks with that. But
that's kind of the a toz long story
short of what is a title company, how do
we use them in our business, how can you
use them in their in your business, and
how do people use title companies in
2025 in today's day and age. So, um, I
hope that this video is helpful for
everybody. I hope that this gives a lot
of information. Again, if you haven't
yet, go ahead and like this video if you
enjoyed it and subscribe down below.
We're posting videos on here almost
daily, trying to post as many as we can.
So, hope you guys are enjoying them. And
again, if you are liking them, give it a
like, give it a comment, tell us that
you're enjoying them so we know to keep
making these videos for you guys so that
we can help. But I appreciate everyone
that came on here today and stay tuned
for the next